New Jersey Innovation Institute (NJII), an NJIT corporation, was founded in 2014 as a 501c3. As an independent, non-profit corporation, NJII is uniquely positioned to be agile, entrepreneurial and opportunistic. NJII is focused on accelerating technology, fostering innovation, and workforce development in order to have a positive economic impact in New Jersey.  Focused on results, NJII has generated over $330M in revenue during its ten years of operation

NJII combines the vast resources of an R-1 university, strong and far-reaching industry and government relationships, and proven methods for building industry centric ecosystems.  The NJII team of 100+ staff are currently organized into four cutting edge divisions that guide our initiatives: AI/ML, Defense, Entrepreneurship, Healthcare and Learning & Development. 

NJII and NJIT have active Commercial And Government Entity (CAGE) Codes.  CAGE code is a five-character ID number used by the Federal Government to identify businesses, organizations, and government agencies that do business with the government.

Watch the video to hear from NJII President, Michael Johnson, P.h.D as well as many of our employees who describe what it's like be a part of NJII.

NJII Publishes FY2024 Annual Report
New Jersey Innovation Institute (NJII) is pleased to announce the release of its Fiscal Year 2024 Annual Report. This comprehensive document highlights our achievements, partnerships, and milestones over the past year, showcasing our impact across healthcare, defense, entrepreneurship, and advanced manufacturing. The report also reflects our commitment to driving innovation, fostering economic growth, and delivering value to the communities we serve. Stay tuned for insights into how NJII continues to shape the future of innovation.

NJII 10 Year Anniversary
In May 2024, New Jersey Innovation Institute celebrated its 10th anniversary as an organization! The celebration included a luncheon event at McLoon’s Boathouse, words of appreciation and inspiration from NJII President Michael Johnson and NJIT President Dr. Teik Lim, and a video commemorating highlights and memories from the past 10 years. Featured in this video is nearly every person to have worked at NJII since its inception, as well as some of our most iconic and impactful moments within our community and beyond. Here’s to another 10 years!

Second HITRUST Risk-Based, 2-year Certification
HITRUST Risk-based, 2-year (r2) Certification demonstrates that the organization has met demanding regulatory compliance and industry-defined requirements and is appropriately managing risk. This achievement places NJII in an elite group of organizations worldwide that have earned this certification. By including federal and state regulations, standards, and frameworks and incorporating a risk-based approach, the HITRUST Assurance Program helps organizations address security and data protection challenges through a comprehensive and flexible framework of prescriptive and scalable security controls.

Industry-Centric Divisions Designed for Impact

Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML)
Welcome to NJII’s AI engine.  This is where we work to understand your challenges and rapidly develop tailored AI solutions for your business.  Tap into the latest AI technologies without the need for in-house expertise or extensive resources.  The NJII AI engine leverages a decade of experience in providing innovative solutions to businesses and the state's only Polytechnic University.

Defense
In the last decade modern warfare has dramatically changed and at NJII we are working closely with our Department of Defense to operationalize emerging technologies in order to support dynamic needs in this changing atmosphere. Specifically, the division is focused on additive manufacturing, unmanned aviation systems, advanced manufacturing, AI systems to support solider and officer safety, product data management, standards development, and 3-D printing in various media. In 2023, NJII opened the doors to the Advanced Manufacturing Center at Landing 360, to house the COMET initiative.  This initiative has been developed to be a test bed for cutting edge manufacturing solutions for the military as well as a training center for the military’s workforce.

Healthcare
NJII is at the forefront of the health IT digital transformation.  In creating new models of evidence-based healthcare, we work with state agencies to build on the secure exchange of digital information.  These new delivery systems improve the quality of care and foster new medical-device technology to lower costs and improve outcomes. The result is cutting edge information technology to better support providers and ultimately improve outcomes for patients. The division operates and manages the New Jersey Health Information Network (NJHIN) on behalf of the New Jersey Department of Health. They have achieved a certified registry for The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Merit-based Incentive Payment System which is a quality improvement program for Medicare providers that meet a certain threshold of Medicare billing annually. The division is one of 59 organizations in the Network of Quality Improvement and Innovation Contractors which are eligible to bid on task orders from the federal government totaling $25B over the next five years.
The Healthcare division also oversees Healthcare Innovation Solutions (HCIS) which is a for-profit subsidiary designed to help our clients find new and innovative ways to optimize healthcare delivery and lower costs, improve patient outcomes, and advance technology. 

The Learning and Development Initiative
LDI is a collaborative effort between NJII, NJIT and industry partners, leveraging the expertise of faculty and subject matter experts in order to drive workforce development for individuals and organizations. This approach provides a wide range of educational and training opportunities, tailored to meet the demands of today's dynamic business environment. Whether you're an individual seeking to enhance your skills or an organization striving to stay ahead of the competition, LDI offers a portfolio of classes, workshops and bootcamps to address your specific needs.

Entrepreneurship
NJII works closely with NJIT on supporting the entrepreneurship ecosystem within the university as well as the local community. Within the continuum of entrepreneurship, NJII is particularly focused on post-company formation activities such as acceleration programs, incubation within the Profeta Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and commercialization of intellectual property. We are deeply committed to creating opportunities for entrepreneurs to connect with each other, industry experts, potential partners, and customers, while fostering a collaborative environment that can identify gaps and lead to innovative solutions to close them.
